.TH OVox 1 "2026-05-22" "ovox 3.7.1-alpha" "OpenVox CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
ovox \- command-line interface for OpenVox / Puppet infrastructure management

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ovox
.RI [ GLOBAL-OPTIONS ]
.I COMMAND
.RI [ SUBCOMMAND-OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ARGUMENTS ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ovox
is the official command-line and terminal interface for the OpenVox GUI.
It provides a scriptable, terminal-friendly way to manage Puppet/OpenVox
infrastructure without using a web browser.

.B ovox
is a thin client. All business logic (PuppetDB queries, certificate
operations, r10k deployments, Bolt orchestration, etc.) lives in the
OpenVox GUI backend. The CLI simply authenticates and talks to the
existing REST API.

The command syntax follows the popular noun-verb style used by tools
such as
.BR gh (1),
.BR kubectl (1),
and
.BR git (1).

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-url " " \fIURL\fR
Base URL of the OpenVox GUI (e.g. https://openvox.example.com:4567).
Can also be set via the \fBOPENVOX_URL\fR environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-token " " \fITOKEN\fR
Bearer JWT authentication token. Useful for scripts and CI.
Can also be set via the \fBOPENVOX_TOKEN\fR environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " {table|json|yaml|csv}
Output format. Defaults to \fBtable\fR. Can also be set via
\fBOPENVOX_OUTPUT\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-no-verify
Disable TLS certificate verification. Useful when connecting directly
to the internal listener on the OpenVox server (port 4567).
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help for the current command.

.SH COMMANDS
.SS Authentication
.TP
.B ovox login [USERNAME]
Interactively authenticate against the OpenVox GUI and store a JWT
token in \fB~/.config/ovox/token\fR. Prompts for password if not supplied.
Supports both local accounts and LDAP/Active Directory.

.TP
.B ovox logout
Remove the locally stored authentication token.

.TP
.B ovox whoami
Display the currently authenticated user and session information.

.SS Information
.TP
.B ovox status
Display a quick summary of the connected OpenVox GUI instance and basic
fleet health information.

.SS Nodes
.TP
.B ovox nodes list
List nodes in the fleet. By default shows a compact table.

.TP
.B ovox nodes show CERTNAME
Display detailed information about a single node, including its facts
and applied classes.

.SS Certificates
.TP
.B ovox certs list
List certificates known to the Puppet CA. By default only shows
\fIpending\fR (unsigned) certificate requests, matching the behavior
of \fBpuppetserver ca list\fR.

.TP
.B ovox certs list \-\-all
Show all certificates (signed, pending, and revoked).

.TP
.B ovox certs pending
Convenience alias for \fBovox certs list\fR (shows only pending CSRs).

.TP
.B ovox certs sign CERTNAME
Sign a pending certificate request.

.TP
.B ovox certs revoke CERTNAME
Revoke a signed certificate.

.TP
.B ovox certs revoke CERTNAME \-\-clean
Revoke the certificate and also remove all associated key material
(equivalent to \fBpuppetserver ca clean\fR).

.SS Query
.TP
.B ovox pql 'PQL QUERY'
Execute a raw Puppet Query Language (PQL) statement against PuppetDB.
Useful for ad-hoc queries and scripting.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic usage
.EX
ovox login
ovox status
ovox nodes list --status failed
ovox certs list --all
.EE

.SS Scripting
.EX
ovox --output json nodes list --status failed | jq -r '.[].certname'
.EE

.SS Remote usage
.EX
OPENVOX_URL=https://openvox.example.com:4567 \\
OPENVOX_TOKEN=... \\
ovox nodes show web01.example.com
.EE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ovox/config.yaml
User configuration file (URL, output format preferences, etc.).
.TP
.I ~/.config/ovox/token
Stored JWT authentication token (mode 0600).
.TP
.I /opt/openvox-gui/ovox/VERSION
Version file when \fBovox\fR is installed as part of OpenVox GUI.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPENVOX_URL
Base URL of the OpenVox GUI. Overrides any value stored in config.
.TP
.B OPENVOX_TOKEN
Authentication token. Useful for non-interactive use.
.TP
.B OPENVOX_OUTPUT
Default output format (\fBtable\fR, \fBjson\fR, \fByaml\fR, or \fBcsv\fR).
.TP
.B OPENVOX_CLI_VERSION
Force a specific version string to be reported (mainly for testing).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR puppet (8),
.BR puppetserver (8),
.BR puppetdb (8),
.BR bolt (1)

The OpenVox GUI web interface and its REST API documentation (usually
available at \fBhttps://your-server:4567/api/docs\fR).

.SH AUTHORS
Written by the OpenVox project team.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/cvquesty/openvox-gui/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.